[Synthetics] Add Kerberos auth docs (#6774)
elastic/docs-content: solutions/observability/synthetics/kerberos-for-browser-monitors.md

---

> navigation_title: Kerberos Authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
navigation_title: Kerberos authentication
```

mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/observability/current/synthetics-kerberos.html
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/serverless/current/observability-synthetics-kerberos.html
applies_to:
  stack: ga

>   serverless: ga

Reviewer: Is this available for all releases or do we need to specify a specific release where this was enabled?

Author: It's generally available

products:
  - id: observability
  - id: cloud-serverless
---

> # Kerberos Authentication for browser monitors [synthetics-kerberos]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Kerberos authentication for browser monitors [synthetics-kerberos]
```

> Kerberos Auhtentication enables monitoring on Single Sign-On (SSO) protected sites, usually behind Microsoft Active Directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kerberos auhtentication enables monitoring on single sign-on (SSO) protected sites, usually behind Microsoft Active Directory.
```

:::{admonition} Requirements

> * Kerberos Authentication works for **Private Locations only**. It will not work from Elastic's managed global locations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Kerberos authentication works for **Private Locations only**. It does not work from Elastic's managed global locations.
```

> * Credentials must be made available to the agent process beforehand. A keytab for the service account plus a `kinit`'d ticket cache (`KRB5CCNAME`). Keep it fresh with a cron job or `systemd` timer (e.g. `kinit -R` every few hours, `kinit -kt` on failure).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Provide the agent process with a keytab for the service account and a `kinit` 'd ticket cache (KRB5CCNAME). Use a cron job or systemd timer to renew the ticket regularly (for example, `kinit -R` every few hours, or `kinit -kt` on failure).
```

> * `/etc/krb5.conf` must be configured for your realm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configure `/etc/krb5.conf` for your realm.
```

> * The SPN (e.g. `HTTP/intranet.corp.local@CORP.LOCAL`) must be registered against the service account that fronts the protected URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Register the SPN (for example, `HTTP/intranet.corp.local@CORP.LOCAL`) on the service account that fronts the protected URL.
```

:::
:::: 

## Configuring Kerberos authentication [configuring_kerberos]

> Browser monitors already have first-class support for SSO Kerberos authentication, simply specify the protected domains under `playwrightOptions.args`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Browser monitors support for SSO Kerberos authentication natively. Specify the protected domains under `playwrightOptions.args`:
```

```ts
playwrightOptions: {
  args: [
    '--auth-server-allowlist=*.corp.local,corp.local',
    '--auth-negotiate-delegate-allowlist=*.corp.local',
  ],
}
```

> The hostname must match an entry in `--auth-server-allowlist`. The matcher is hostname-only and supports shell-style wildcards — `*.corp.local` will NOT match the bare `corp.local`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hostname must match an entry in `--auth-server-allowlist`. Matching is hostname-only and supports shell-style wildcards — `*.corp.local` will not match the bare `corp.local`.
```
